knowing that i'm at risk of covid just
because of the color my skin
it's a lot to deal with emotionally
my name is stephanie i'm a biomedical
scientist and i'm about to have my first
child during the pandemic
i'm aliano i'm a musician from north
london
my name is simon i work at st thomas's
hospital
[Music]
so i think for us covered 19 has really
shined light on the
long-standing inequalities that have
been experienced by black and brown
people
you can't think about kobe 19 without
considering black lives matter
[Music]
and all of these statistics are likely
to have a negative impact
on people's mental well-being
when i heard the reports of being more
at risk to covid it was a whole bunch of
confusion in the air and added more
pressure and anxiety to
what was already um a heavy time
i felt like um when i went to the
protest i had to
choose between public health safety and
fighting for basic rights of my people
and
that's where the real sense of emotion
came from
that conflict of mixed emotions
the older you are so you might risk so
you're having to adjust to
making life decisions for the
responsibilities of your
grandparents and for your race and for
yourself as well and it's like
whoa but this is a lot
seeing the protests online it
made me feel disappointed because i
couldn't attend
during this pandemic i have two risk
factors
being pregnant and being black lots of
questions
were coming in my head as to why how how
is this the case
the reasons why people from black asian
and minority ethnic communities
are disproportionately impacted is quite
complex
and there have been a number of
suggestions that have been put forward
so one being socio-demographic
characteristics
but what we also see is that once you've
adjusted the sociodemographic
factors that that inequality or the
inequity still remains
there have been some biological
explanations put forward
such as vitamin d but i think we have to
be very cautious
when we just focus on kind of biological
explanations
because i think it's often easier for
the system to focus on
there being an issue with the individual
or the community
when actually structural racism has been
probably the one thing that
the system has never really paid any
attention to
and i think was without paying attention
to our racialized experience
it means that any intervention that we
develop or course of action
will be inadequate there's just a lot of
a lot of feelings of anxiety definitely
as i didn't know what to do how to
protect myself and
protect my child it really has had its
challenges
the lockdown experience i don't even
know where to start um
so much has happened i feel like time's
just flown by
early march my dad actually ended up
getting corona
he's a nurse he was bed bound for about
three weeks
it was a rollercoaster journey we
found him on the floor in the middle of
the night dripping and sweat
me and my mum helped him up caught him
back to the bed
and that's when i think me and my mom
just had a mental breakdown like
it came across my mind like wow like i
might actually lose my dad or
he might die didn't know what to expect
didn't know who to blame
didn't know what to do just just felt
alone
but luckily my dad pulled through and
he's still alive he's still well he's
back to work
i know a lot of people suffered a lot
more they lost their loved ones but
what i went through i'll wish that on no
one
whatsoever
when we're thinking about the kind of
context of um kovid
and beyond as well as thinking about the
potential second wave
it's really important for us um as a
as a community to be better at
talking about the impact that this is
having um
on us and to share our anxieties and our
concerns with one another
so that we can provide that support
so the steps that i've been taking to
stay positive during this pandemic
would be having weekly
phone conversations with my friends
where we get together
on facetime i guess i've just been
riding my
bike whenever it gets a bit too much
just get out my house get some fresh air
i made a group chat with people that i
met at the protest and
people that already knew and that was so
important for
for us to show our solidarity together
behind the scenes
it's not just about getting through blm
or getting through covert it's about
anything else that we have to face being
black or being brown
coming from these minority communities
there really
is a call to action this is an opportune
time
for us to take the lead in finding the
solution
what is it that you can do to make a
positive change for
people in your network people in your
community so i would say
you know volunteer um get involved in
political life
see how you can support other people
what that does is it gives us a sense of
purpose
and that in itself will have positive
impacts on our on our mental well-being